docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. graphkit documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Jun 16 19:10:27 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


========
GraphKit
========

|travis-status| |cover-status| |gh-version| |pypi-version| |python-ver|
|dev-status| |downloads-count| |codestyle| |proj-lic|

|gh-watch| |gh-star| |gh-fork| |gh-issues|

**It's a DAG all the way down!** |sample-plot|

Lightweight computation graphs for Python
-----------------------------------------

GraphKit is an an understandable and lightweight Python module for building and running
ordered graphs of computations.
The API posits a fair compromise between features and complexity without precluding any.
It might be of use in computer vision, machine learning and other data science domains,
or become the core of a custom ETL pipelne.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   operations
   graph_composition
   reference
   changes


.. _quick-start:

Quick start
-----------

Here's how to install::

   pip install graphkit

OR with dependencies for plotting support (and you need to install `Graphviz
<https://graphviz.org>`_ program separately with your OS tools)::

   pip install graphkit[plot]


Here's a Python script with an example GraphKit computation graph that produces multiple outputs (``a * b``, ``a - a * b``, and ``abs(a - a * b) ** 3``)::

   from operator import mul, sub
   from graphkit import compose, operation

   # Computes |a|^p.
   def abspow(a, p):
      c = abs(a) ** p
      return c

   # Compose the mul, sub, and abspow operations into a computation graph.
   graphop = compose(name="graphop")(
      operation(name="mul1", needs=["a", "b"], provides=["ab"])(mul),
      operation(name="sub1", needs=["a", "ab"], provides=["a_minus_ab"])(sub),
      operation(name="abspow1", needs=["a_minus_ab"], provides=["abs_a_minus_ab_cubed"], params={"p": 3})(abspow)
   )

   # Run the graph-operation and request all of the outputs.
   out = graphop({'a': 2, 'b': 5})

   # Prints "{'a': 2, 'a_minus_ab': -8, 'b': 5, 'ab': 10, 'abs_a_minus_ab_cubed': 512}".
   print(out)

   # Run the graph-operation and request a subset of the outputs.
   out = graphop({'a': 2, 'b': 5}, outputs=["a_minus_ab"])

   # Prints "{'a_minus_ab': -8}".
   print(out)

As you can see, any function can be used as an operation in GraphKit, even ones imported from system modules!


.. _plotting:

Plotting
--------

For debugging the above graph-operation you may plot the *execution plan*
of the last computation it using these methods::

   graphop.plot(show=True)                # open a matplotlib window
   graphop.plot("intro.svg")              # other supported formats: png, jpg, pdf, ...
   graphop.plot()                         # without arguments return a pydot.DOT object
   graphop.plot(solution=out)             # annotate graph with solution values

.. image:: images/intro.svg
    :alt: Intro graph

.. figure:: images/GraphkitLegend.svg
   :alt:  Graphkit Legend

   The legend for all graphkit diagrams, generated by :func:`graphkit.plot.legend()`.

.. Tip::
   The `pydot.Dot <https://pypi.org/project/pydot/>`_ instances returned by ``plot()``
   are rendered directly in *Jupyter/IPython* notebooks as SVG images.

.. NOTE::
   For plots, `Graphviz <https://graphviz.org>`_ program must be in your PATH,
   and ``pydot`` & ``matplotlib`` python packages installed.
   You may install both when installing ``graphkit`` with its ``plot`` extras::

      pip install graphkit[plot]

License
-------

Code licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 license. See LICENSE file for terms.


.. |travis-status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/yahoo/graphkit.svg
    :alt: Travis continuous integration testing ok? (Linux)
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/yahoo/graphkit/builds

.. |cover-status| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/yahoo/graphkit/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/yahoo/graphkit

.. |gh-version| image::  https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/yahoo/graphkit.svg?label=GitHub%20release&include_prereleases
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit/releases
    :alt: Latest version in GitHub

.. |pypi-version| image::  https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/graphkit.svg?label=PyPi%20version
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Latest version in PyPI

.. |python-ver| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/graphkit.svg?label=Python
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Supported Python versions of latest release in PyPi

.. |dev-status| image:: https://pypip.in/status/graphkit/badge.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Development Status

.. |downloads-count| image:: https://pypip.in/download/graphkit/badge.svg?period=month&label=PyPi%20downloads
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: PyPi downloads

.. |codestyle| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black
    :alt: Code Style

.. |gh-watch| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github watchers

.. |gh-star| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github stargazers

.. |gh-fork| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github forks

.. |gh-issues| image:: http://img.shields.io/github/issues/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit/issues
    :alt: Issues count

.. |proj-lic| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/graphkit.svg
    :target:  https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    :alt: Apache License, version 2.0

.. |sample-plot| image:: images/sample_plot.svg
    :alt: sample graphkit plot
    :width: 120px
    :align: middle

Commit message:

doc(plot): explain how to reset plot to bare-bone

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. graphkit documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Jun 16 19:10:27 2016.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.


========
GraphKit
========

|travis-status| |cover-status| |gh-version| |pypi-version| |python-ver|
|dev-status| |downloads-count| |codestyle| |proj-lic|

|gh-watch| |gh-star| |gh-fork| |gh-issues|

**It's a DAG all the way down!** |sample-plot|

Lightweight computation graphs for Python
-----------------------------------------

GraphKit is an an understandable and lightweight Python module for building and running
ordered graphs of computations.
The API posits a fair compromise between features and complexity without precluding any.
It might be of use in computer vision, machine learning and other data science domains,
or become the core of a custom ETL pipelne.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   operations
   graph_composition
   reference
   changes


.. _quick-start:

Quick start
-----------

Here's how to install::

   pip install graphkit

OR with dependencies for plotting support (and you need to install `Graphviz
<https://graphviz.org>`_ program separately with your OS tools)::

   pip install graphkit[plot]


Here's a Python script with an example GraphKit computation graph that produces multiple outputs (``a * b``, ``a - a * b``, and ``abs(a - a * b) ** 3``)::

   from operator import mul, sub
   from graphkit import compose, operation

   # Computes |a|^p.
   def abspow(a, p):
      c = abs(a) ** p
      return c

   # Compose the mul, sub, and abspow operations into a computation graph.
   graphop = compose(name="graphop")(
      operation(name="mul1", needs=["a", "b"], provides=["ab"])(mul),
      operation(name="sub1", needs=["a", "ab"], provides=["a_minus_ab"])(sub),
      operation(name="abspow1", needs=["a_minus_ab"], provides=["abs_a_minus_ab_cubed"], params={"p": 3})(abspow)
   )

   # Run the graph-operation and request all of the outputs.
   out = graphop({'a': 2, 'b': 5})

   # Prints "{'a': 2, 'a_minus_ab': -8, 'b': 5, 'ab': 10, 'abs_a_minus_ab_cubed': 512}".
   print(out)

   # Run the graph-operation and request a subset of the outputs.
   out = graphop({'a': 2, 'b': 5}, outputs=["a_minus_ab"])

   # Prints "{'a_minus_ab': -8}".
   print(out)

As you can see, any function can be used as an operation in GraphKit, even ones imported from system modules!


.. _plotting:

Plotting
--------

For debugging the above graph-operation you may plot the *execution plan*
of the last computation it using these methods::

   graphop.plot(show=True)                # open a matplotlib window
   graphop.plot("intro.svg")              # other supported formats: png, jpg, pdf, ...
   graphop.plot()                         # without arguments return a pydot.DOT object
   graphop.plot(solution=out)             # annotate graph with solution values

.. image:: images/intro.svg
    :alt: Intro graph

.. figure:: images/GraphkitLegend.svg
   :alt:  Graphkit Legend

   The legend for all graphkit diagrams, generated by :func:`graphkit.plot.legend()`.

Note that if you plot a compose a graph operation it comes out bare bone,
with just the 2 types of nodes (data & operations) & execution-plan sequence.
But as soon as you run it, the net plot calls will print more of the internals.
These are based on the ``graph_op.net.last_plan`` attribute which *caches*
the last run to inspect it.  If you want the bare-bone diagram, simply reset it::

   netop.net.last_plan = None

.. NOTE::
   For plots, `Graphviz <https://graphviz.org>`_ program must be in your PATH,
   and ``pydot`` & ``matplotlib`` python packages installed.
   You may install both when installing ``graphkit`` with its ``plot`` extras::

      pip install graphkit[plot]

.. Tip::
   The `pydot.Dot <https://pypi.org/project/pydot/>`_ instances returned by ``plot()``
   are rendered directly in *Jupyter/IPython* notebooks as SVG images.

License
-------

Code licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 license. See LICENSE file for terms.


.. |travis-status| image:: https://travis-ci.org/yahoo/graphkit.svg
    :alt: Travis continuous integration testing ok? (Linux)
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/yahoo/graphkit/builds

.. |cover-status| image:: https://codecov.io/gh/yahoo/graphkit/branch/master/graph/badge.svg
    :target: https://codecov.io/gh/yahoo/graphkit

.. |gh-version| image::  https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/yahoo/graphkit.svg?label=GitHub%20release&include_prereleases
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit/releases
    :alt: Latest version in GitHub

.. |pypi-version| image::  https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/graphkit.svg?label=PyPi%20version
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Latest version in PyPI

.. |python-ver| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/graphkit.svg?label=Python
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Supported Python versions of latest release in PyPi

.. |dev-status| image:: https://pypip.in/status/graphkit/badge.svg
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: Development Status

.. |downloads-count| image:: https://pypip.in/download/graphkit/badge.svg?period=month&label=PyPi%20downloads
    :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/graphkit/
    :alt: PyPi downloads

.. |codestyle| image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-black.svg
    :target: https://github.com/ambv/black
    :alt: Code Style

.. |gh-watch| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github watchers

.. |gh-star| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github stargazers

.. |gh-fork| image:: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit
    :alt: Github forks

.. |gh-issues| image:: http://img.shields.io/github/issues/yahoo/graphkit.svg?style=social
    :target: https://github.com/yahoo/graphkit/issues
    :alt: Issues count

.. |proj-lic| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/graphkit.svg
    :target:  https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
    :alt: Apache License, version 2.0

.. |sample-plot| image:: images/sample_plot.svg
    :alt: sample graphkit plot
    :width: 120px
    :align: middle
